README.md, before:

SOME USEFUL COMMANDS
====================

## 1. Conda

To install, visit https://docs.conda.io/en/latest/miniconda.html and download the package that fits your operative system, then (in case of MacOSX):

    bash Miniconda2-latest-MacOSX-x86_64.sh

To update:

    conda update conda

To keep conda activated when you open a new terminal, add this line to your .bashrc file:

    export PATH=/home/nicolo/miniconda3/bin/:$PATH

To list all the installed packages:

    conda list

To install new packages:

    conda install <package>

To create a python2 environment:

    conda create -n py2 python=2
   
    conda activate py2

To go back to 'base' environment:

    conda deactivate

To create an environment with r:

    conda create -n Estadistica --channel r r-base

    conda activate Estadistica

To install a Jupyter notebook on conda:

    conda install jupyter

To install m2-base:

    conda install -c msys2 m2-base

## 2. Jupyter

To launch jupyter:

    jupyter console

To open a jupyter notebook, enter the directory where your notebook is stored and use the following command:

    jupyter notebook

To see the list of jupyter notebooks open:

    jupyter notebook list
    
To install R kernel on Jupyter (reference: https://irkernel.github.io/installation/):
    
    install.packages('IRkernel')
    
    IRkernel::installspec()

or, to install for all the users of the system: 

    IRkernel::installspec(user = FALSE)
    
To automatically save your jupyter notebook in 'ipynb', 'html', and as a script of the language you are using (e.g. 'py', 'r', ...), create a configuration file for jupyter:

    jupyter notebook --generate-config

And add the following script to the config file just created (in my case, named: .jupyter/jupyter_notebook_config.py):

    import os
    from subprocess import check_call

    c = get_config()

    def post_save(model, os_path, contents_manager):
    """post-save hook for converting notebooks to .py and .html files."""
    	if model['type'] != 'notebook':
            return # only do this for notebooks
    	d, fname = os.path.split(os_path)
        check_call(['ipython', 'nbconvert', '--to', 'script', fname], cwd=d)
        check_call(['ipython', 'nbconvert', '--to', 'html', fname], cwd=d)

    c.FileContentsManager.post_save_hook = post_save

## 3. R

Some packages you may want to add to your R:

     install.packages(c('repr', 'IRdisplay', 'evaluate', 'crayon', 'pbdZMQ', 'devtools', 'uuid', 'digest', 'caret', 'e1071', 'ISLR','rpart','rpart.plot','tree','arules','arulesViz','tidyverse','randomForest'))

## 4. Sqlitestudio

To download sqlitestudio, visit:

    https://sqlitestudio.pl/index.rvt?act=download

To install it on ubuntu 18.04, go to the folder where you downloaded the installer and:

    chmod +x InstallSQLiteStudio-3.2.1

    ./InstallSQLiteStudio-3.2.1

To run sqlite studio from the terminal:

    /opt/SQLiteStudio/sqlitestudio

Commit message:

instructions to install keras on R

README.md, after:

SOME USEFUL COMMANDS
====================

## 1. Conda

To install, visit https://docs.conda.io/en/latest/miniconda.html and download the package that fits your operative system, then (in case of MacOSX):

    bash Miniconda2-latest-MacOSX-x86_64.sh

To update:

    conda update conda

To keep conda activated when you open a new terminal, add this line to your .bashrc file:

    export PATH=/home/nicolo/miniconda3/bin/:$PATH

To list all the installed packages:

    conda list

To install new packages:

    conda install <package>

To create a python2 environment:

    conda create -n py2 python=2
   
    conda activate py2

To go back to 'base' environment:

    conda deactivate

To create an environment with r:

    conda create -n Estadistica --channel r r-base

    conda activate Estadistica

To install a Jupyter notebook on conda:

    conda install jupyter

To install m2-base:

    conda install -c msys2 m2-base

## 2. Jupyter

To launch jupyter:

    jupyter console

To open a jupyter notebook, enter the directory where your notebook is stored and use the following command:

    jupyter notebook

To see the list of jupyter notebooks open:

    jupyter notebook list
    
To install R kernel on Jupyter (reference: https://irkernel.github.io/installation/):
    
    install.packages('IRkernel')
    
    IRkernel::installspec()

or, to install for all the users of the system: 

    IRkernel::installspec(user = FALSE)
    
To automatically save your jupyter notebook in 'ipynb', 'html', and as a script of the language you are using (e.g. 'py', 'r', ...), create a configuration file for jupyter:

    jupyter notebook --generate-config

And add the following script to the config file just created (in my case, named: .jupyter/jupyter_notebook_config.py):

    import os
    from subprocess import check_call

    c = get_config()

    def post_save(model, os_path, contents_manager):
    """post-save hook for converting notebooks to .py and .html files."""
    	if model['type'] != 'notebook':
            return # only do this for notebooks
    	d, fname = os.path.split(os_path)
        check_call(['ipython', 'nbconvert', '--to', 'script', fname], cwd=d)
        check_call(['ipython', 'nbconvert', '--to', 'html', fname], cwd=d)

    c.FileContentsManager.post_save_hook = post_save

## 3. R

Some packages you may want to add to your R:

     install.packages(c('repr', 'IRdisplay', 'evaluate', 'crayon', 'pbdZMQ', 'devtools', 'uuid', 'digest', 'caret', 'e1071', 'ISLR','rpart','rpart.plot','tree','arules','arulesViz','tidyverse','randomForest'))

To install keras on R:

     install.packages("keras")

     library(keras)

     install_keras(method = "conda")

## 4. Sqlitestudio

To download sqlitestudio, visit:

    https://sqlitestudio.pl/index.rvt?act=download

To install it on ubuntu 18.04, go to the folder where you downloaded the installer and:

    chmod +x InstallSQLiteStudio-3.2.1

    ./InstallSQLiteStudio-3.2.1

To run sqlite studio from the terminal:

    /opt/SQLiteStudio/sqlitestudio
